I recieved a result that caused me some anxiety for a couple hours (even though I realized it rationaly couldn't be true).

Namely, you can upload your 23andMe data to search the database of Family Tree DNA members (or other people who have uploaded data).  I was told that there was someone within the range of "Father/Son", who was also an X-chromosome match (and "X-match").  This is not possible: I am a male, so a father or son would have to have a Y-chromosome match (and not an X-chromosome match).

I e-mailed the contact (you can see the e-mail address for your predicted relatives), but I never heard back.  One possiblity is that someone could have created a false account that was based upon my [public genome data](https://my.pgp-hms.org/profile/hu832966), but I don't know that for certain.  For example, there are a lot of people listed within the range of "2nd Cousin - 4th Cousin," and I don't recognize any of them.  I also don't have a access to the raw data for this individual.  ***In other words, all I know is that this result can't be precise.***

More importantly, as a general rule, if you encounter a surprising result, I would like to encourage people to **first pause and then try to calm down and critically assess the results**.  This can go both ways - for example, I would also recommend waiting at least one day before positing anything negative (as probably would have been wise for a Food Sensitivity test, although I have posted an [apology](https://github.com/cwarden45/DTC_Scripts/blob/master/Nutrigenomics/README.md) in that section).

To be clear, *I would usually expect an IBD calculation for the same individual or parent-child relationship to be reliable*.  For example, you can see a clear difference when comparing my own samples versus 1000 Genomes samples and most parent-to-child relationships on [this page](https://github.com/cwarden45/DTC_Scripts/tree/master/Helix_Mayo_GeneGuide/IBD_Genetic_Distance/README.md) (and this plot is something that I am continuing to look into).  *I have also found known and validated novel relationships on 23andMe and AncestryDNA.*

*Unfortuantely, unexpected family relationships can sometimes be true.*  However, there can also be limits to the precision of genomics methods and possibly even some allowance for human error (such as sample mix-ups).  So, please take some time to think about making decisions that could affect the rest of your life and may permanently affect your relationships.  For example, to troubleshoot a possible sample swap, *do all people involved have predicted relationships with other people fitting the alternative model*?  If one person has expected relatives and the other person doesn't have any matches that can be explained, perhaps that indicates the sample that should be re-processed (either with the same company, and/or a different company).

**In other words, if you encounter a result that causes you anxiety, please first try to calm down.**  Then, please take some time to evaluate the situtation: the result could be real, but please also ask questions (from independent resources) about whether there could be misunderstanding and/or inaccurate information that has caused you concern.  For the potential misunderstanding part, perhaps a good first step would be to contact technical support and/or a genetic counselor.